President Obama accepted the Nobel Peace Prize during a ceremony Thursday in Norway, acknowledging the paradox of receiving the award as the U.S. is embroiled in two wars, while maintaining that instruments of war have a role in preserving peace. In his acceptance speech, Obama told Nobel Committee members and guests in Oslo that achieving peace must begin with the recognition that the use of force is sometimes morally justified. "Make no mistake: Evil does exist in the world. A nonviolent movement could not have halted Hitler's armies. Negotiations cannot convince al-Qaida's leaders to lay down their arms," he told the crowd. It was just nine days ago that Obama announced he is sending an additional 30,000 U.S. troops to Afghanistan in an effort to step up training of Afghan security forces and root out insurgents operating on the border with Pakistan. "I understand why war is not popular, but I also know this: The belief that peace is desirable is rarely enough to achieve it," he said, urging support for NATO and saying peacekeeping responsibilities shouldn't be left to a few countries. The president said war is justified in cases of self-defense, when civilians are being slaughtered by their own government, or a civil war threatens to engulf an entire region. Accompanied by first lady Michelle Obama, the president struck a humble tone upon arriving in the Norwegian capital after a seven-hour flight from Washington, D.C. He acknowledged the controversy surrounding the Nobel Committee's decision to honor him less than a year into his presidency, saying he knew there were others more deserving of the honor. During his speech, Obama took note of the "giants of history" who have been honored with the Peace Prize, including humanitarian Albert Schweitzer, civil rights leader Martin Luther King Jr. and Red Cross founder Henry Dunant. "My accomplishments are slight" by comparison, he said. At a news conference with Norwegian Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg earlier in the day, Obama vowed to use the award to advance his goals for peace.